magma oceans supersonic winds
scorching hot days and instead of rain a
bunch of rocks
falling on your head just another one of
those days huh
astronomers recently discovered a new
super planet out there
k2414b is an exoplanet
that's around 200 light years away and
in serious need of a new name
an exoplanet is just a fancy way of
saying that a planet orbits its own star
in another solar system the earth orbits
the sun
so this planet has its own orbit party
going on
so what makes k2 bunch of numbers so
scary
picture our beautiful little blue planet
earth now
imagine that all the volcanoes in the
world suddenly erupted at the same time
and lava cover the oceans and seas fiery
hurricanes
thousands of times faster than normal
glow all over the place
24 7 and it starts raining rocks every
now and again
rocks like on your head thankfully not
in your head
this scary planet came into our lives
about two years ago
scientists are still studying it
so what's a typical daylight for
starters you can forget about breathing
oxygen decided to take a pass on this
planet you'd have to get used to sodium
silicon monoxide and silicon dioxide
which is as you guessed not great and
that's just scratching the surface
who knows what other chemicals are lying
around
and yes magma oceans the planet's
surface is covered in molten magma as
far as the eye can see
this lava planet orbits really close to
its star
which is why the surface is like a
fireplace the closest planets to our sun
are mercury and venus
but this planet's even closer and what's
even more weird
is that half the planet is in constant
daytime
the other half night it's
tidal locked just like our moon is no
matter how long you stare at it
you'll never see the other side that's
why the all-day
everyday scorching fiery side is so hot
and overflowing with magma oceans
while the other side's in a constant
state of deep freeze
if the magma doesn't burn you you've
still got big problems and please
don't look up it's raining rocks on
earth
water turns to steam rises up becomes
clouds
cools and falls as rain over there on
planet fireball it's exactly the same
except for
its rocks people the planet so hot it
vaporizes rocks
oh and don't forget the supersonic winds
with speeds up to 3 000 miles per hour
imagine your hat getting blown off your
head at five times
faster than an airplane the strongest
wind on earth was the tropical cyclone
olivia that hit australia
it was blowing at 250 miles per hour now
imagine 12
times that on the sunny side of the
planet
you're looking at a roasting 5000
degrees
the hottest it ever got on earth's
surface was in california
135 degrees it's pretty common for it to
get near that temperature in the sahara
desert
but that kind of heats not exactly
enough to make rocks evaporate
if you grew up near a desert you already
know how dry and hot it always is
but did you know that deserts can reach
freezing temperatures
a desert by definition is a large area
with little or no rainfall
that means no water vapor to keep the
temperatures from going insane
in the daytime the sun heats up the
desert like an oven
but when the sun sets the heat packs up
and heads home
and it can get really cold some deserts
have even reached -40 degrees at night
but wait shouldn't deserts have snow if
it's that cold
well some deserts have had a bit of snow
here and there but because there's no
water vapor
there can't be that much snow just dry
freezing sandy sahara nights
now the sahara desert is actually not
the largest desert on earth
it's antarctica five million square
miles of icy dryness
almost no people and a whole bunch of
cute penguins
penguins technically live in a desert
back to the fireball planet this time
the nightside
never-ending darkness and extreme cold
about minus 330 degrees
add in some supersonic winds earth's
coldest
minus 130 degrees at a research center
in antarctica
so how does this jalapeno pepper exo
planet
stack up against some of our neighbors
well mars isn't exactly livable either
it's the red planet so you'd think it'd
be hot most of the time
but it's usually freezing well way below
freezing
and if you're planning a weekend getaway
to mars you can leave the umbrella
at home nah it doesn't ring rocks and it
actually hasn't rained there for
millions of years
at least mars has days and nights and
it's like earth in other ways
mars equator is steamy hot and it gets
pretty cold at the north and south poles
just like earth scientists even
discovered old bits of carbon dioxide
snow there
the entire planet is actually covered in
carbon dioxide
with a splash of nitrogen here and there
scientists even reported intense snow
storms on mars
but because it's mostly carbon dioxide
it's not your typical snow storm
it's more like a dry ice storm that's
the stuff they use in fog machines
mars isn't the only place where climates
are going cuckoo
jupiter is famous for its gigantic
storms
not like the ones we know on earth i'm
talking about storms that last for
centuries
the great red spot on jupiter is
actually a 400 year old storm
and you could fit four whole earths
inside of it
so it's been around for a while but it's
nowhere near as intense as the storms on
k2
venus also has intense rain but it's not
made of rocks
it sort of works it rains sulfuric acid
that stuff can give you severe skin
burns and rip nasty holes through your
umbrella
venus's atmosphere is filled with carbon
dioxide
which acts like a net to trap in the
sun's radiation
and it's insanely hot no magma oceans
though
mercury is the closest planet to the sun
and doesn't even have an atmosphere
that means no storms clouds rain wind
whatever mercury is kind of like a
desert here on earth
no water vapor and no rainfall that
means temperatures shoot up during the
day and drop like crazy at night
the k2 exoplanets like the most extreme
parts of all of our solar system
all rolled into one scary planet
but we're not headed there anytime soon
we haven't even been to mars yet
that's all way off in the future and 200
light years
is a really long travel time if we're
going to move anywhere
anytime soon we'll probably want to set
up camp on the moon
no magma oceans no warp speed winds nice
temperatures
so where would we even start well the
main issue
is that drones and remote control robots
are getting more and more advanced
it's way cheaper to send them over to
map out the moon for us
while we're safe here on earth
and if we ever want to begin space
exploration for real
we'd need a proper space base and what
better place
than our little shiny moon so why do we
even study those far off planets
what's the point well planets are like
people
they're all different ages and live in
all different places
the more that we study the more we can
understand why there's life
aka us on earth and not on any other
planet
so far when we see crazy new planets we
get
crazy new ideas which can turn into
awesome inventions that make our lives
easier even just going into space gives
us new ideas
scratch proof lenses some firefighting
equipment
water filtration systems wireless
headsets
invisible braces that tiny vacuum you
use to clean those crumbs in from
between your couch cushions
they were all invented to help
astronauts work better in space
and now they make our lives better every
day
maybe we'll figure out a new energy
source someday thanks to a far-off
planet or star
or we might discover a new compound that
will make our building stronger
or more energy efficient